---
layout: post
title:  "Installing Deep Learning toolkits running on GPU"
date:   2016-05-18 15:18:00
---

In post shares the installation of Deep Learning toolkits and GPU.

# GPU installation
Needs (at least) an installed GPU. Next thing is install CUDA library to control the GPU(s). Following this tutorial [NVIDIA's page] (http://docs.nvidia.com/cuda/cuda-installation-guide-linux/)

After installing all prerequisites, download the deb file and install the library
        
    wget http://developer.download.nvidia.com/compute/cuda/repos/ubuntu1404/x86_64/cuda-repo-ubuntu1404_7.5-18_amd64.deb
    sudo dpkg -i cuda-repo-ubuntu1404_7.5-18_amd64.deb
    sudo apt-get update
    sudo apt-get install cuda

The cuda library needs a post-installation restart to detect GPU(s)

To manage the GPU, using `top` to see system's memory performance or `nvidia-smi -l 1` to manage all GPU

When installing cuda, I encountered a error "Failed To Fetch" related to chrome multiple times. A solution is modifying the file `/etc/apt/sources.list.d/google-chrome.list` by inserting `[arch=amd64]` after the word *deb*

# Torch
Torch is an open source machine learning library, a scientific computing framework, and a script language based on the Lua programming language. It provides a wide range of algorithms for deep machine learning, and uses an extremely fast scripting language LuaJIT, and an underlying C implementation.

A good starting point for Torch is  its [official page](http://torch.ch/docs/getting-started.html)

## Installing
First, we install cuDNN, the NVIDIA's GPU-accelerated library of primitives for deep neural networks (a free registration is required). After login with your registered account, download `cuDNN v5 Library for Linux` (named cudnn-7.5-linux-x64-v5.0-ga.tgz). Go to the downloaded folder and 
        
        tar -zxvf cudnn-7.5-linux-x64-v5.0-ga.tgz
        # go to the extracted folder
        cd cuda
        sudo cp include/cudnn.h /usr/local/cuda-7.5/include
        sudo cp lib64/libcudnn* /usr/local/cuda-7.5/lib64/
        
For Mac and Ubuntu 12+
    
    # in a terminal, run the commands WITHOUT sudo
    git clone https://github.com/torch/distro.git ~/torch --recursive
    cd ~/torch; bash install-deps;
    ./install.sh
    source ~/.bashrc
    
May need a server restart
        
        luarocks install cutorch
        luarocks install cunn
        luarocks install cudnn
        
Try with some [examples](http://torch.ch/docs/five-simple-examples.html) or [tutorial](http://torch.ch/docs/tutorials.html)

